# Schematic API

## Structure

The original code, made by an LLM and provided by the client, allowed the placement and wiring of components using a Python script.

Two functions were added to the KicadSchematic class: one allowing the addition of hierarchical sheets to the working .sch file, and the other allowing the placement of multiple sheets at the same time.

The hierarchical functions take an object from the HierarchicalObject class, which is generated by reading a "meta.yaml" file. These files are located in /subsystems/(subsystem)/, alongside the .kicad_sch file that describes the hierarchical sheet and its external libraries.

All of the necessary external libraries are listed in the fp-lib-table an in the sym-lib-table files, which are copied into every new program and act as default configuration for the project library address table.

Currently, the software works as a terminal application. Typing "uv run src/main.py new (project_name) (subsystem1 subsytem2 ...)" will generate a new program with the schemmatic file set up. Typing "uv run src/main.py list" will list every subsystem available in the application.

## Current challenges

### Stepping into the PCB creation
KiCad pcb desings are extremely dependent on their schematic counterparts and there is no equivalent to a hierarchical sheet at the pcb side of the software. 

The only solution to this, until now, has been manually copying every part of the .kicad_pcb files that contains (footprint) or (segment) and writing it into a blank file. This forces KiCad to fix and generate every necessary header and configuration, resulting in several errors, but eventually working.

This solution does not take the netlists in consideration. If a design is imported into a blank file without the netlist descriptor, KiCad creates one big net on which every terminal is conected. It works and easily allows the addition of several designs into the same project, however, it is clearly the worst solution possible, having in mind that the final user still has to work on a project that follows no logic, allowing greater mistakes.

